1. Drug Discov Today. 2023 Apr;28(4):103516. doi: 10.1016/j.drudis.2023.103516. 
Epub 2023 Feb 2.

New avenues in artificial-intelligence-assisted drug discovery.

Cerchia C(1), Lavecchia A(2).

Author information:
(1)Drug Discovery Laboratory, Department of Pharmacy, University of Naples 
Federico II, I-80131 Naples, Italy.
(2)Drug Discovery Laboratory, Department of Pharmacy, University of Naples 
Federico II, I-80131 Naples, Italy. Electronic address: 
antonio.lavecchia@unina.it.

Over the past decade, the amount of biomedical data available has grown at 
unprecedented rates. Increased automation technology and larger data volumes 
have encouraged the use of machine learning (ML) or artificial intelligence (AI) 
techniques for mining such data and extracting useful patterns. Because the 
identification of chemical entities with desired biological activity is a 
crucial task in drug discovery, AI technologies have the potential to accelerate 
this process and support decision making. In addition, the advent of deep 
learning (DL) has shown great promise in addressing diverse problems in drug 
discovery, such as de novo molecular design. Herein, we will appraise the 
current state-of-the-art in AI-assisted drug discovery, discussing the recent 
applications covering generative models for chemical structure generation, 
scoring functions to improve binding affinity and pose prediction, and molecular 
dynamics to assist in the parametrization, featurization and generalization 
tasks. Finally, we will discuss current hurdles and the strategies to overcome 
them, as well as potential future directions.

Copyright Â© 2023 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.drudis.2023.103516
PMID: 36736583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

